================================
Sources for Data on Common Names
================================

It is the position of the author of this software that lists of common names in
various languages and nationalities are collections of fact, ineligible for
copyright protection, and hence the data files included with this software are
considered to be public domain. Nonetheless, it is appropriate to acknowledge
the following sources of this information, out of both gratitude and academic
rigour.

Chinese
=======
Chinese surnames are so heavily weighted towards a few common names that "the
hundred surnames" is an idiomatic term for the Chinese people. Most data on
these names was taken from Wikipedia_ (primarily the articles "`Chinese surname
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_surname>`_" and "`List of common Chinese
surnames <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_common_Chinese_surnames>`_"),
which collects data from a number of primary sources.

In contrast, Chinese given names are theoretically endless in variety, as they
can be composed of any of the thousands of Chinese characters in use. Moreover,
the practice of giving a child another person's name is actively avoided, and
so there is really no such thing as a "common" name. However, some characters
*are* more common than others, and some combinations of them crop up with
greater frequency.

`Research by Chih-Hao Tsai <http://technology.chtsai.org/namefreq/>`_ was
invaluable in identifying these "not common but more frequent" names. Genders
were assigned to these names using the `NamSor Gendre API
<http://namesorts.com/2014/03/27/chinese-name-gender-guesser-api/>`_. Pinyin
readings were obtained from the `Unicode Han Database
<http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr38/>`_.

Danish
======
Danmarks Statistik (Statistics Denmark) maintains the Central Population
Register (CPR), and some very useful extracts and search systems in both
`Danish <http://dst.dk/da/Statistik/emner/navne.aspx>`_ and `English
<http://dst.dk/en/Statistik/emner/navne.aspx>`_.

"Top 20" lists for surnames and male and female given names are provided, but
the ability to find how many Danes have a particular name was especially
helpful in fleshing out the lists beyond these top few.

Finnish
=======
The Väestötietojärjestelmä (VTJ; "Population Information System") provides
`data sets <https://www.avoindata.fi/data/en/dataset/none>`_ listing all names
that occur more than 50 times in the VTJ: surnames, first names (for men and
women), and personal names after the first (for men and women).

French
======
The site `Geopatronyme.com <http://www.geopatronyme.com/>`_ maintains a list
counting children born with given surnames from 1891 to 1990. `The complete list
<http://www.geopatronyme.com/cgi-bin/carte/hitnom.cgi?periode=5>`_ was used as
the basis of the list. As the list is maintained in upper case letters, without
diacritics, a search for each name on the French-language `Wikipédia
<https://fr.wikipedia.org/>`_ was used to assign these.

Data on common given names (*prénoms*) was sourced from `About.com
<http://french.about.com/od/culture/a/frenchnames.htm>`_.

Old Spanish
===========
Numerous sources were used for these names. One particularly good one was
Cawley's *Medieval Lands*, hosted at the `Foundation for Medieval Genealogy
<http://fmg.ac/Projects/MedLands/SPANISH%20NOBILITY%20EARLY%20MEDIEVAL.htm>`_.
Additionally, extensive browsing of both the `English-language`__ and
`Spanish-language Wikipedias <https://es.wikipedia.org/>`_ was used to compile
and check lists. Finally, web searches that touched on many other sources were
used to establish spellings and historicity of several names.

On that note, spellings have not been handled consistently. In general, modern
Spanish (Castilian) spellings have been preferred. Where several forms of a
name were found to be applied to the same individuals, one has been chosen
(e.g. Vermudo over Bermudo, Munio over Muño), with some attempt made to choose
the one more commonly used. This has led to cases where some names follow one
convention, and some another (especially the use of "ni" versus "ñ").
Contrarily, when two forms (e.g. Pero and Pedro) both appeared in the same
sources for *different* individuals, both forms have been retained.

It is quite likely that such variations represent different regional
preferences from across the Iberian peninsula. It is some reassurance to know
that families of the time likewise combined individuals from all over the
peninsula (and elsewhere)!

As for surnames, these are exclusively of the form "de [place]", and have not
been chosen systematically. All of them are attested, but it is not certain
whether they were all truly used as surnames (i.e. passed down through the
family), rather than titles of an individual *conde* (count).

__ Wikipedia_

.. _Wikipedia: https://en.wikipedia.org/